create interacting-with-master-data-v1-through-vtex-io-services.md (#1282)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/guides/Master-Data/guides/interacting-with-master-data-v1-through-vtex-io-services.md

---
title: "Interacting with Master Data v1 through VTEX IO services"
slug: "interacting-with-master-data-v1-through-vtex-io-services"
hidden: false
createdAt: "2024-06-21T10:45:55.338Z"
updatedAt: "2024-06-21T11:40:35.480Z"
excerpt: "Setting up a service in VTEX IO to interact with Master Data v1."
---

This guide provides step-by-step instructions on how to create a VTEX IO service to interact with [Master Data v1](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/master-data--4otjBnR27u4WUIciQsmkAw). Discover how to effectively leverage Master Data capabilities through your service in the upcoming sections.

> 

Reviewer: De repente vale a pena contextualizar com alguns exemplos de caso de uso

## Before you begin

Make sure you meet the technical requirements to complete this project:

* Experience developing in [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) language.
* Having [VTEX IO CLI](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-vtex-io-cli-install) installed.

## Step 1: Initializing the project

To begin setting up your service to interact with Master Data v1 on VTEX IO, follow these steps to initialize your project using the service-example template:

> 1. Open your terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the terminal.
```

2. Type the command `vtex init`.
3. Select the `service-example` template.
4. Enter a folder name or use the default name, which is the same as the selected template.

## Step 2: Setting up policies

Configure permissions for your application to access Master Data by following the steps below:

1. Open the project folder in your preferred code editor.
2. Open the `manifest.json` file located at the root of the project.

> 3. Add the following structure to the **policies** section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the following structure to the `policies` section:
```

    ```json
    {
      "name": "outbound-access",
      "attrs": {
        "host": "api.vtex.com",
        "path": "/dataentities/*"
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "ADMIN_DS"
    }
    ```

> ### Step 3: Creating a client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Creating a client
```

Create a client class in TypeScript to extend the functionality of `MasterData` from the `@vtex/api` module:

1. Inside the `node` folder, create a `clients` folder if it does not exist.
2. Create a Typescript file in the `clients` folder. In this example, the file will be named `md.ts`.
3. Create a class that extends from the `MasterData` class from the `@vtex/api` module.

   ```typescript
   import { MasterData } from '@vtex/api'
   export default class MD extends MasterData {}
   ```

4. Modify the class to include the constructor and headers:

>    In this class, we will call the constructor and within it the super method, passing the context and options received in the class constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In this class, we will call the `constructor` and, within it, the `super` method, passing the `context` and `options` received in the `constructor` class.
```

   ```typescript
   import { IOContext, InstanceOptions, MasterData } from '@vtex/api'

   export default class MD extends MasterData {
     constructor(context: IOContext, options?: InstanceOptions) {
       super(context, {
         ...options,
         headers: {
           {{app-key}}
           {{app-token}}
         },
       })
     }
   }
   ```

   In this class, we will have access to several methods extended from the **Master Data** class, including:

   * `getDocumentById`
   * `searchDocuments`

>    * `scrollDocuments`

Reviewer: Talvez incluir uma descrição breve de cada
Por exemplo:
`getDocumentById` - Retorna um objeto contendo.... dado x,y,z.

> 5. Add a method. The example below uses the **getDocumentById** method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add the desired method. The example below uses the `getDocumentById` method:
```

   ```typescript
   public getDocumentById(
     dataEntity: string,
     id: string,
     fields: string[]
   ): Promise<any> {
     return this.getDocument({ dataEntity, id, fields })
   }
   ```

> ### Step 4: Registering the Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Registering the Client
```

After creating our Client class, you need to register it in the `index.ts` file within the same `clients` folder:

1. Open the `index.ts` file in the `clients` folder.

> 2. Add imports and code, as illustrated below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Import the new client (e.g., `MD`) and add it to the `Clients` class, as exemplified below:
```

   ```typescript
   import { IOClients } from '@vtex/api'
   import MD from './md'
   
   // Extend the default IOClients implementation with our own custom clients
   export class Clients extends IOClients {
     public get MD() {
       return this.getOrSet('MD', MD)
     }
   }
   ```

> ### Step 5: Creating the middleware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 5: Creating the middleware
```

> Implement a middleware function that will handle interactions between your service and Master Data, executing the method we created and returning the response based on the context:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement a middleware function to handle interactions between your service and Master Data, executing the method we created and returning the response based on the context:
```

1. Inside the `node` folder, create a `middlewares` folder if it does not exist.
2. Create a file named `masterdataMiddleware.ts` in the `middlewares` folder.
3. Add your TypeScript code to `masterdataMiddleware.ts`.

   Following the example in the previous sections to illustrate this step, in this middleware, we will return the call to the method created to a variable and then add this variable to the context body. The method expects to receive an *entity*, a *document ID*, and an *array* of fields to be returned in the response.

   ```typescript
   export async function masterdataMiddleware(
     ctx: Context,
     next: () => Promise<any>
   ) {
     const {
       clients: { MD },
     } = ctx

     const response = await MD.getDocumentById(
       'CL',
       '0807f150-68bb-11Ec-82ac-12fdbe358f3f',
       ['id', 'email']
     )

     ctx.status = 200

     ctx.body = {
       response,
     }

     await next()
   }
   ```

> ### Step 6: Configuring the route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 6: Configuring the route
```

Configure a dedicated route in your service that will be accessed through your store's endpoint:

1. Open the `service.json` file in the `node` folder.

> 2. In the **routes** section, create a route structure as shown below. In this example, we will define the **path** as `/_v/md/get-document` and make this route public.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the `routes` section, define the `routes` object as shown below. In this example, we will define the `path` as `/_v/md/get-document` and make this route public.
```

    ```json
    "routes": {
      "masterdata": {
        "path": "/_v/md/get-document",
        "public": true
      }
    }
    ```

3. Open the `index.ts` file in the `node` folder.

>    In this file, you will see a new instance of service created. You will register your route within the **routes** object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In this file, you will see a new instance of service created. You will register your route within the `routes` object.
```

4. Register the route  within the **routes** object.

   ```typescript
    masterdata: method({
        GET: [masterdataMiddleware],
    }),
   ```

> The *masterdata* attribute is the route ID created in the `service.json` file.

The *masterdata* attribute receives a function containing an object where we can pass various middleware mappings. In this case, we will use the HTTP method **GET**, which receives an *array* where we must declare the middleware created in previous sections.

## Step 7: Running the project

Finalize setup by linking your project to a development workspace and testing the configured service routes:

> 1. In your terminal, navigate to the root of the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the terminal, navigate to the root of the project.
```
